# DNS - Methodology

### Authority domain servers

To retrieve the `Domain Name System (DNS)` servers having authority over a
specific domain, the following command be used:

```
host -t ns <DOMAIN>
dig -t NS +short <DOMAIN>
```

### DNS lookup

To resolve the IP associated to a Domain/Fully Qualified Domain Name:

```
dig +short <FQDN>
host <DOMAIN/FQDN>
```

The following commands can be used to retrieve specific DNS records associated
with a domain:

```
# Relies on ANY, which is often blocked or filtered, to query all records
dig +nocmd +noall +answer <target_domain> ANY

# A/AAAA/NS/SOA/MX/TXT
dig +nocmd +noall +answer <DOMAIN> <RECORDTYPE>
```

### Reverse DNS lookup

To resolve the Domain/Fully Qualified Domain Name associated to an IP address:

```
dig +short -x <IP>
dig +short @<NAMESERVER> -x <IP>
host <IP>
host <IP> <NAMESERVER>
nmap -sn -Pn --dns-servers <NAMESERVER> (<IP> | <FQDN> | <CIDR> | <RANGE>)
```

### DNS zone transfers

A zone transfer is similar to a database replication act between related DNS
servers. This process includes the copying of the zone file from a master DNS
server to a slave server.  
Zone transfers should usually be limited to authorized slave DNS servers (by IP
source or protected by a TSIG key) but a misconfigured DNS server could be
allowing zone transfer from anyone.

The following commands can be used to test for zone transfers:

```
dig -t AXFR @<NAMESERVER> <DOMAIN>
host -l <DOMAIN> <NAMESERVER>
```

The `DNSRecon` and `DNSenum` tools can be used to enumerate nameservers for a
domain and try a zone transfer for each enumerated nameserver:

```
dnsrecon -a -d <DOMAIN>
dnsrecon -a -n <NAMESERVER> -d <DOMAIN>

dnsenum <DOMAIN>
dnsenum --dnsserver <NAMESERVER> <DOMAIN>
```

### DNS zone walking

Due to a design flaw in the NSEC records used by
`Domain Name System Security Extensions (DNSSEC)`, it may be possible to
discover all subdomains of a particular domain for which `NSEC` records are
available.

`DNSSEC` is a number of security oriented specifications for DNS aiming at
securing the DNS protocol against a number of attacks, including the spoofing
and poising of records as well as man-in-the-middle attacks.

The integrity of DNS records is ensured by storing a digital signature
associated to a specific record, in a `RRSIG` record. The DNS resolver
retrieves the queried record along with its digital signature, and can
afterward query the DNS server for the public key, stored in a `DNSKEY` record.

The `NSEC` and `NSEC3` record types are defined in `DNSSEC` to handle the case
of inexistent records. As a non inexistent record cannot be digitally signed,
the need arise to securely inform the DNS resolver that the queried record does
not exist. `NSEC` records work by returning the "Next Secure" record stored
alphabetically in the zone, meaning a enumeration of all defined domains is
possible using the `NSEC` records of a zone. `NSEC3` addresses this issue, by
returning salted hashes of domain names instead of directly returning the
domain name.

The `DNSRecon` tool can be used to conduct DNS zone walking:

```
dnsrecon -t zonewalk -d <DOMAIN>
```

### Forward lookup brute force

Forward lookup brute force consist of guessing valid names, from a wordlist, of
servers by attempting to resolve a given name.   
If the guessed name does resolve, the results might indicate the presence and
even functionality of the server.

The following wordlists of subdomains can be used:

```
# bitquark - Top 1000 to 1000000
https://github.com/bitquark/dnspop/tree/master/results

# dnsscan - Top 100 to 10000
https://github.com/rbsec/dnscan

# SecList - 2178752 entries
SecLists/Discovery/DNS/jhaddix-dns.txt
```

The following tools can be used to conduct automated forward lookup brute
force:

```
# Subbrute
python subbrute.py -v <DOMAIN>
python subbrute.py -v -s <WORDLIST> -c <THREADS> <DOMAIN>

# echo "<NAMESERVER>" > tmp_resolver.txt
python subbrute.py -v -r tmp_resolver.txt -s <WORDLIST> -c <THREADS> <DOMAIN>

# Gobuster
gobuster -m dns -w <WORDLIST> -t <THREADS> -i -u <DOMAIN>

dnscan / Nmap / Recon-Ng / DNSRecon / Fierce / DNSenum / AltDNS / ...
```

### Reverse Lookup Brute Force

If the `PTR records`, used for mail services, are configured for the domain,
reverse lookup brute force may possible.

If the DNS forward brute-force enumeration revealed a set of scattered IP
addresses, the following bash one liner can be used to conduct a reverse lookup
brute force:

```
for ip in $(seq <0> <255>);do host <x.x.x>.$ip;done |grep -v "not found"
```

### Public Resources and proprietary databases

Public resources such as Google, Bing, etc. and proprietary databases such as
`DNSdumpster`, `VirusTotal`, `DomainTools`, etc. can contain FQDN.

The Sublist3r python script can be used to enumerate domains from public
resources sources, as well as doing subdomains brute forcing:

```
python sublist3r.py -d <DOMAIN>

python sublist3r.py -b <WORDLIST> -d <DOMAIN>
```
