# Android - Application Stack

###### Certificate

The Android system requires that all installed applications to be digitally
signed with a certificate whose private key is held by the application's
developer.

The Android system uses the certificate as a means of :

- Guaranteeing the integrity of the APK
- Identifying the author of an application
- Establishing trust relationships between applications.
- Special persmissions relie on certificats :
  - android:protectionLevel "signature" (non-default)  
    A permission that the system grants only if the requesting application is
    signed with the same certificate as the application that declared the
    permission.  
    If the certificates match, the system automatically grants the permission
    without notifying the user or asking for the user's explicit approval.
  - android:sharedUserId  
    The name of a Linux user ID that will be shared with other applications.
    By default, Android assigns each application its own unique user ID.
    However, if this attribute is set to the same value for two or more
    applications, they will all share the same ID — provided that their
    certificate sets are identical.
    Applications with the same user ID can access each other's data and,
    if desired, run in the same process.
- Checking that any update is signed using the same certificate

When running or debugging your project from the IDE, Android Studio
automatically signs your APK with a debug certificate generated by the
Android SDK tools.
Because the debug certificate is created by the build tools and is insecure by
design, most app stores (including the Google Play Store) will not accept an
APK signed with a debug certificate for publishing.
