# Android - Static Analysis

### APK disassembling

Apktool can be used to disassemble and decode resources including the
AndroidManifest.xml, resources.arsc, classes.dex into smali code, etc.  
The tool can also be used to rebuild the decoded resources back to a binary
APK/JAR after modifications.
```
# Disassemble
apktool d <App.apk>

# Rebuild
apktool b <Apk_folder/>
```

### Automated static analysis

###### Mobile Security Framework (MobSF)

Automated mobile application pen-testing framework capable of performing static
(and dynamic) analysis.  
Performs a review of the AndroidManifest.xml file, print the certifcat used to
sign the APK, decompile the dex files and look for specific keywords, etc.  
Additional information: https://github.com/MobSF/Mobile-Security-Framework-MobSF
```
# Start MobSF
python manage.py runserver

# Then go to http://127.0.0.1:8000 and upload the APK.
```

###### Quick Android Review Kit (QARK)

In addition to conducting similar testing as MobSF, QARK undertakes a deeper
code review and allows for the creation of an APK to exploit client-side
misconfigurations and vulnerabilities.  
Additional information: https://github.com/linkedin/qark
```
python qarkMain.py  
```

### Certificate analysis

For a detailed explanation on the usefulness and importance of the certificate
used to sign the APK refer to 1.2-Overview_Application_Stack#Certificate.

The certificate, to be found in the META-INF folder, can be displayed using
openssl:
```
openssl pkcs7 -inform DER -in CERT.RSA -noout -print_certs -text
```
The tool jarsigner can be used to verify the signatures and integrity of the
APK files:
```
jarsigner -verify -certs -verbose <App.apk>
```

Check that the application is not signed with a debug certificate, insecure by
design, and that the signature algorithm used is cryptographically robust.  

If the application does not need to be compatible with older Android devices
using Android < 4.3, the sha256WithRSAEncryption signature algorithm, with a
minimum RSA key size of 2048, is recommended. If the application needs to be
retrocompatible, the cryptographic hash function SHA1 can be used instead of
SHA256 (sha1WithRSAEncryption).  


### AndroidManifest.xml analysis

###### Manual extract

While it is recommended to use Apktool to fully extract and decode the APK,
the following tools may be used to convert the AndroidManifest.xml file into a
human readable text file :
```
# Complete extract of the manifest
java -jar AXMLPrinter2.jar <AndroidManifest.xml> > AndroidManifest_readable.xml

# Permissions and activities extract
aapt dump badging <App.apk>  
```

###### Permissions

Review that the permissions granted to the application are in accordance with
the application usage.  

The following permissions are considered sensitive by the Android development
team :

|Sensible permissions |
|---|
| READ_CALENDAR | WRITE_CALENDAR | CAMERA | READ_CONTACTS |
| WRITE_CONTACTS | GET_ACCOUNTS | ACCESS_FINE_LOCATION | ACCESS_COARSE_LOCATION |
| RECORD_AUDIO | READ_PHONE_STATE | READ_PHONE_NUMBERS | CALL_PHONE |
| ANSWER_PHONE_CALLS | READ_CALL_LOG | WRITE_CALL_LOG | ADD_VOICEMAIL |
| USE_SIP | PROCESS_OUTGOING_CALLS | BODY_SENSORS | SEND_SMS |
| RECEIVE_SMS | READ_SMS | RECEIVE_WAP_PUSH | RECEIVE_MMS |
| READ_EXTERNAL_STORAGE | WRITE_EXTERNAL_STORAGE |

While most of the permissions names are self explanatory, more information can
be found on the Android website :
https://developer.android.com/guide/topics/permissions/overview

Note that the *INTERNET* permission should NOT be considered dangerous
(as incorrectly stated by MobSF).

If the application requires the *WRITE_EXTERNAL_STORAGE* permission, the
information written on the external storage should be reviewed for sensitive
information, using static and dynamic analysis described below, as the external
storage is globally readable.  

If the application requires the *READ_EXTERNAL_STORAGE*, *READ_PHONE_NUMBERS* or
*READ_SMS* permissions, verification that the application performs
input validation and sanitization on the retrieved data should be conducted.    

###### Activities

The application activities can be exported with the **android:exported**
attribute set to true. By default activities are not exported
(*android:exported="false"*).    
Exported activities can be launched by others applications present on the
endpoint.   
If an intent filter is specified, the activity is automatically exported and the
activity available to launch through the intent filter conditions.  
If the attribute is set with no intent filter specified, the activity can be
launched by others applications through its full name.  
Exported activities functionalities should be reviewed and potential use cases
analyzed.

###### Debug mode

The **android:debuggable** attribute, set in the *<application\>* element of the
AndroidManifest, determines whether or not the application can be debugged.  
By default this attribute is disabled, i.e., set to false.  
When in debug mode, the application makes a connection to the the JDWP service
– the Java Debug Wire Protocol. This allows a non root user to perform a set of
commands for debugging the application such as dumping the application heap
memory, etc.  
An application should thus never be released with this attribute set to true as
it enables users to gain access to details of the app that should be kept
secure.

###### Backup mode

The **android:allowBackup** attribute, set in the *<application\>* element of
the AndroidManifest, determines whether or not the application data can be
backed up, using adb backup.  
By default, this flag is set to true.  
The USB debugging mode has to be activated on the Android terminal for a
backup to be possible. If a terminal with the USB debugging mode activated is
plugged on a compromised PC, the application data, that could contains sensible
information, could be extracted.  
If supporting backup is not a desired use case, the attribute should be set to
false (android:allowBackup="false").
###### Broadcast, services, etc.

###  Code review

MobSF automates a lot of the research detailed below and should be used whenever
possible.

While a grep-like tool may be used to quickly search in the decoded APK files,
it is recommended to use an IDE, such as Android Studio or IntelliJ IDEA, for a
more user friendly approach and a facilitated code review.

###### Manual extract

The JAVA sources files of the APK can be retrieved using MobSF, QARK or the
following method:
```
d2j-dex2jar.sh -f -o <App_jar.jar> <App.apk>

# Open the jar file with JD-Gui and File > Save All Sources
```

###### De obfuscation

###### Sensible plain-text information

Search for sensible plain-text variables using the following keywords:
```
user
pass
key
authorize
```

###### Certificate verification and pinning

Multiples mechanisms can be used to enforce certificate pinning.  
The following keywords may be used to detect certificate pinning implementation:
```
X509

# In the AndroidManifest, since Android N
pin-set

# OkHttp
CertificatePinner

# HttpUrlConnection
trustedChain

# Volley OR Apache HttpClient
getHostnameVerifier
PinningHostnameVerifier
```
It is recommended to rely on dynamic analysis to detect certificate pinning as
the application should simply fail to communicate with the server when placing
an intermediate SSL/TLS termination proxy.

###### Storage I/O
Information written on the device should be reviewed for sensible content.  
The following methods can be used to write file on the local storage:
```
getFilesDir
getCacheDir
openFileOutput
```

###### Logs

Multiples methods for writing log output exist in Android:

| Methods | Log type |
| ------- | -------- |
| Log.i() | INFO     |
| Log.w() | WARNING  |
| Log.e() | ERROR    |
| Log.d() | DEBUG    |
| Log.v() | VERBOSE  |

The order in terms of verbosity, from least to most, is ERROR, WARN, INFO,
DEBUG, VERBOSE.  

VERBOSE logs should never be compiled into a release build.  
DEBUG logs should be placed inside conditional statements based on the
*isDebuggable(this)* flag or stripped from the release build. It is important to
note that DEBUG logs are still written even if the application is not
*debuggable*.   
Log stripping for release build can be done using the Java bytecode
optimizer ProGuard.

The following keywords can be used to search for logging methods:
```
android.util.Log
Log.*
```
Futhermore, look for any custom logging implementation based on the
*android.util.Log* class.

### WebView

WebView is a system component that allows Android apps to display content from
the web directly inside an application, creating the concept of hybrid apps.
An app can be Native, Hybrid or Web (HTML5).
