# Android - Static Analysis

At the lowest level, Android is based on a variation of the **Linux Kernel**,
taking care of underlying functionalities such as threading and low-level
memory management.

On top of the kernel, the **Hardware Abstraction Layer (HAL)** defines a
standard interface for interacting with built-in hardware components, providing
access to device hardware capabilities to the higher-level Java API framework.
The HAL consists of multiple library modules, each of which implements an
interface for a specific type of hardware component, such as the camera or
Bluetooth module. When a framework API makes a call to access device hardware,
the Android system loads the library module for that hardware component.

Android applications don't have direct access to hardware resources, and each
application runs in its own sandbox.
This allows precise control over resources and applications: for instance, a
crashing application doesn't affect other applications running on the device.
At the same time, the Android runtime controls the maximum number of system
resources allocated to apps, preventing any app from monopolizing too
many resources.

### APK disassembling

`Apktool` can be used to disassemble and decode resources including the
`AndroidManifest.xml`, `resources.arsc`, `classes.dex` into `smali` code, etc.  
The tool can also be used to rebuild the decoded resources back to a binary
`APK`/`JAR` after modifications.

```
# Disassemble
apktool d <App.apk>

# Rebuild
apktool b <Apk_folder/>
```

### Automated static analysis

###### Mobile Security Framework (MobSF)

[`MobSF`](https://github.com/MobSF/Mobile-Security-Framework-MobSF) is an
automated mobile application pen-testing framework capable of  performing
static (and dynamic) analysis. It performs a review of the
`AndroidManifest.xml` file, print the certificate used to sign the `APK`,
decompiles the `dex` files and look for specific keywords, etc.

```
# Start MobSF
python manage.py runserver

# Then go to http://127.0.0.1:8000 and upload the APK.
```

###### Quick Android Review Kit (QARK)

In addition to similar tests `MobSF`, [`QARK`](https://github.com/linkedin/qark)
 undertakes a deeper code review and allows for the creation of an `APK` to
exploit client-side misconfigurations and vulnerabilities.

Note however that `QARK` is

```
python qarkMain.py  
```

### Certificate analysis

The Android system requires that all installed applications to be digitally
signed with a certificate whose private key is held by the application's
developer.

The Android system uses the certificate as a means of :

- Guaranteeing the integrity of the `APK`

- Identifying the author of an application

- Establishing trust relationships between applications.

- Special permissions rely on certificates:
  - `android:protectionLevel` "signature" (non-default): a permission that the
    system grants only if the requesting application is signed with the same
    certificate as the application that declared the permission.  
    If the certificates match, the system automatically grants the permission
    without notifying the user or asking for the user's explicit approval.
  - `android:sharedUserId`: the name of a `Linux user ID` that will be shared
    with other applications. By default, Android assigns each application its
    own unique `user ID`. However, if this attribute is set to the same value
    for two or more applications, they will all share the same ID — provided
    that their certificate sets are identical. Applications with the same `user
    ID` can access each other's data and, if desired, run in the same process.

- Checking that any update is signed using the same certificate

When running or debugging your project from the IDE, `Android Studio`
automatically signs the `APK` with a debug certificate generated by the
`Android SDK tools`. Because the debug certificate is created by the build
tools and is insecure by design, most app stores (including the `Google Play
Store`) will not accept an `APK` signed with a debug certificate for
publishing.

The certificate, to be found in the `META-INF` folder, can be displayed using
`openssl`:

```
openssl pkcs7 -inform DER -in CERT.RSA -noout -print_certs -text
```
The tool `jarsigner` can be used to verify the signatures and integrity of the
`APK` files:

```
jarsigner -verify -certs -verbose <App.apk>
```

The validity and algorithms of the certificate should be reviewed.

If the application does not need to be compatible with older Android devices
using Android < 4.3, the `sha256WithRSAEncryption` signature algorithm, with a
minimum RSA key size of 2048, is recommended. If the application needs to be
retro compatible, the cryptographic hash function `SHA1` can be used instead of
`SHA256` (`sha1WithRSAEncryption`).  

### AndroidManifest.xml analysis

###### Manual extract

While it is recommended to use `Apktool` to fully extract and decode the `APK`,
the following tools may be used to convert the `AndroidManifest.xml` file into
a human readable text file:

```
# Complete extract of the manifest
java -jar AXMLPrinter2.jar <AndroidManifest.xml> > AndroidManifest_readable.xml

# Permissions and activities extract
aapt dump badging <App.apk>  
```

###### Permissions

Review that the permissions granted to the application are in accordance with
the application usage.  

The following permissions are considered sensitive by the Android development
team :

|Sensible permissions |
|---|
| READ_CALENDAR | WRITE_CALENDAR | CAMERA | READ_CONTACTS |
| WRITE_CONTACTS | GET_ACCOUNTS | ACCESS_FINE_LOCATION | ACCESS_COARSE_LOCATION |
| RECORD_AUDIO | READ_PHONE_STATE | READ_PHONE_NUMBERS | CALL_PHONE |
| ANSWER_PHONE_CALLS | READ_CALL_LOG | WRITE_CALL_LOG | ADD_VOICEMAIL |
| USE_SIP | PROCESS_OUTGOING_CALLS | BODY_SENSORS | SEND_SMS |
| RECEIVE_SMS | READ_SMS | RECEIVE_WAP_PUSH | RECEIVE_MMS |
| READ_EXTERNAL_STORAGE | WRITE_EXTERNAL_STORAGE |

While most of the permissions names are self explanatory, more information can
be found on the Android website:
https://developer.android.com/guide/topics/permissions/overview

Note that the `INTERNET` permission should NOT be considered dangerous.

If the application requires the `WRITE_EXTERNAL_STORAGE` permission, the
information written on the external storage should be reviewed for sensitive
information, using static and dynamic analysis described below, as the external
storage is globally readable.

If the application requires the `READ_EXTERNAL_STORAGE`, `READ_PHONE_NUMBERS`
or `READ_SMS` permissions, verification that the application performs input
validation and sanitization on the retrieved data should be conducted.    

###### Debug mode

The `android:debuggable` attribute, set in the `<application\>` element of the
`AndroidManifest`, determines whether or not the application can be debugged.
By default this attribute is disabled, i.e., set to false.  

When in debug mode, the application makes a connection to the `Java Debug Wire
Protocol (JDWP)` service. This allows a non root user to perform a set of
commands for debugging the application such as dumping the application heap
memory, etc. An application should thus never be released with this attribute
set to true as it enables users to gain access to details of the app that
should be kept secure.

###### Backup mode

The `android:allowBackup` attribute, set in the `<application\>` element of
the `AndroidManifest`, determines whether or not the application data can be
backed up, using `adb` backup for example. By default, this flag is set to
true.  

The `USB debugging mode` has to be activated on the Android terminal for a
backup to be possible. If a terminal with the USB debugging mode activated is
plugged on a compromised PC, the application data, that could contains sensible
information, could be extracted. If supporting backup is not a desired use
case, the attribute should be set to false (`android:allowBackup="false"`).

###### Activities

The application activities can be exported with the `android:exported`
attribute set to true. By default activities are not exported
(`android:exported="false"`). Exported activities can be launched by others
applications present on the endpoint.

Note that:

  - If an intent filter is specified, the activity is automatically exported
    and the activity available to launch through the intent filter conditions.

  - If the attribute is set with no intent filter specified, the activity can
    be launched by others applications through its full name.

Exported activities functionalities should be reviewed and potential use cases
analyzed.

###### Broadcast, services, etc.

###  Code review

`MobSF` automates a lot of the research detailed below and should be used
whenever possible.

While a `grep-like` tool may be used to quickly search in the decoded `APK`
files, it is recommended to use an IDE, such as `Android Studio` or `IntelliJ
IDEA`, for a more user friendly approach and a facilitated code review.

###### Manual extract

The `JAVA` sources files of the `APK` can be retrieved using `MobSF`, `QARK` or
the following method:

```
d2j-dex2jar.sh -f -o <App_jar.jar> <App.apk>

# Open the jar file with JD-Gui and File > Save All Sources
```

###### De obfuscation

###### Sensible plain-text information

Among others, the following keywords may lead to sensible information stored
in plain-text variables:

```
user
pass
key
authorize
login
secret
```

###### Certificate verification and pinning

Multiples mechanisms can be used to enforce certificate pinning.  

The following keywords may be used to detect certificate pinning
implementation:

```
X509

# In the AndroidManifest, since Android N
pin-set

# OkHttp
CertificatePinner

# HttpUrlConnection
trustedChain

# Volley OR Apache HttpClient
getHostnameVerifier
PinningHostnameVerifier
```

It is recommended to rely on dynamic analysis to detect certificate pinning as
the application should simply fail to communicate with the server when placing
an intermediate `SSL`/`TLS` termination proxy.

###### Storage I/O

Information written on the device should be reviewed for sensible content.  

The following methods can be used to write file on the local storage:

```
getFilesDir
getCacheDir
openFileOutput
```

###### Logs

Multiples methods for writing log output exist in Android:

| Methods | Log type |
| ------- | -------- |
| Log.i() | INFO     |
| Log.w() | WARNING  |
| Log.e() | ERROR    |
| Log.d() | DEBUG    |
| Log.v() | VERBOSE  |

The order in terms of verbosity, from least to most, is `ERROR`, `WARN`,
`INFO`, `DEBUG`, `VERBOSE`.  

Note that:
  - `VERBOSE` logs should never be compiled into a release build.
  - `DEBUG` logs should be placed inside conditional statements based on the
    `isDebuggable(this)` flag or stripped from the release build. It is
    important to note that `DEBUG` logs are still written even if the
    application is not `debuggable`.   

Log stripping for release build can be done using the `Java` bytecode optimizer
`ProGuard` for example.

The following keywords can be used to search for logging methods:

```
android.util.Log
Log.*
```

Furthermore, custom logging implementation can be based on the
`android.util.Log` class.

### WebView

`WebView` is a system component that allows Android apps to display content
from the web directly inside an application, creating the concept of hybrid
apps. An application can be Native, Hybrid or Web (HTML5).
