# Active Directory - Credentials Theft Shuffle

### Local group enumeration

Enumerating local groups members, and notably the (local or domain-joined)
members of the local Administrators / Administratreurs built-in groups, is a
crucial step in the credentials theft shuffling process. In order to find what
computers the compromised accounts have access to with out triggering
`Access denied` errors, multiples tools and techniques can be used.

The first technique makes direct query to the computer and utilizes either the
`Active Directory Service Interfaces (ADSI) WinNT` provider or the
`NetLocalGroupGetMembers` Windows API. Any unprivileged domain user can make
use of either techniques. The targeted computer must be running and joinable
from a network perspective.

```
# PowerView - single computer Administrators members
Find-DomainLocalGroupMember -ComputerName <HOSTNAME | IP>
Find-DomainLocalGroupMember -ComputerName <HOSTNAME | IP> -ComputerDomain <DOMAIN> -Server <DC> -Credential <PSCredential>

# PowerView - multiple computers Administrators members
Find-DomainLocalGroupMember | Export-Csv -Path <OUTPUT_CSV>
Find-DomainLocalGroupMember -ComputerDomain <DOMAIN> -Server <DC> -Credential <PSCredential>

# PingCastle (usually not flagged by anti-virus)
.\PingCastle.exe -> 5-Scanner -> 6-localadmin -> 1-all / 2-one / 3-workstation / 4-server

# BloodHound's SharpHound
Each computer node contains a "Local Admins", populated if SharpHound was used with the 'LocalAdmin' or 'All' collection methods
```

The second technique pulls the local administrators configured through
`Group Policy Objects (GPO)`. Local group membership can be defined using
`Restricted Groups` in `GptTmpl.inf` file or group membership in
`Group Policy Preferences groups.xml` files.

In the `GptTmpl.inf`, users or group will added in the built-in Administrators
group using the line:

```
[Group Membership]
*S-1-5-32-544__Members = <*SID | USERNAME | GROUPNAME>
```

This technique present the advantage of being stealthier as no direct queries
to each computers are made to retrieve the local administrators group members.
However, any user or group added in the local Administrators group directly on
the master image will be missed.

```
# Returns all GPOs in a domain that modify local group memberships through 'Restricted Groups' or Group Policy preferences
# The 'GroupName' specify the group to which the 'GroupMembers' are added
Get-DomainGPOLocalGroup
Get-DomainGPOLocalGroup -Domain <DOMAIN> -Server <DC> -Credential <PSCredential>

Get-DomainOU -GPLink "<GPO_GUID>" | ForEach-Object {
    Get-DomainComputer -SearchBase "LDAP://$($_.distinguishedname)" | Ft Name
}
```

Note that the tooling of this technique is still experimental and that the
tools presented below may not yield comprehensive results.

```
# Enumerates the machines where a specific domain user/group is a member of a specific local group
# If no user/group is specified, all discoverable mappings are returned.
Get-DomainGPOUserLocalGroupMapping
Get-DomainGPOUserLocalGroupMapping -Identity <USERNAME | GROUPNAME> -LocalGroup <TARGET_GROUPNAME> -Domain <DOMAIN> -Server <DC> -Credential <PSCredential>

# Enumerates a specified local group for the targeted machine
Get-DomainGPOComputerLocalGroupMapping -ComputerIdentity <HOSTNAME | IP> -LocalGroup <GROUPNAME>
Get-DomainGPOComputerLocalGroupMapping -ComputerIdentity <HOSTNAME | IP> -LocalGroup <GROUPNAME> -Domain <DOMAIN> -Server <DC> -Credential <PSCredential>

SharpHound's 'GPOLocalGroup' or 'DcOnly' collection methods.
```

### Session hunting

###### Win32API's NetSessionEnum and NetWkstaUserEnum

The Windows `Win32API`'s `NetSessionEnum` and `NetWkstaUserEnum` functions
provide information about sessions established, respectively, on a server or
a workstation. Note that on newer versions of Windows, `NetWkstaUserEnum`
requires Administrator privileges. The `PowerView`'s cmdlets `Get-NetSessions`
and `Get-NetLoggedon` respectively wrap the `NetSessionEnum` and
`NetWkstaUserEnum` functions.

The `PowerView`'s cmdlet `Find-DomainUserLocation` combine the two
aforementioned cmdlets to find machines where the specified user or group's members have sessions. The `ShowAll` flag can also be specified to return all
user's session, on all machines or on the specified machine.

If the `Stealth` flag is specified, then likely highly-traffic servers are
enumerated with `Get-DomainFileServer` and `Get-DomainController` and session
enumeration is executed only against those servers.

If the `CheckAccess` flag is specified, the `PowerView` cmdlet
`Test-AdminAccess` will be called to check if the current user context has
local administrator access to the machine on which the target members have a
session on. Note that the `CheckAccess` does not take into account credentials
specified using the `Credential` parameter. The `CheckAccess` call can be
patched using the following code:

```
# if ($CheckAccess)
if ($PSBoundParameters['Credential']) {
  $Admin = Test-AdminAccess -ComputerName $TargetComputer -Credential $Credential
}
else {
  $Admin = Test-AdminAccess -ComputerName $TargetComputer
}
$UserLocation | Add-Member Noteproperty 'LocalAdmin' $Admin.IsAdmin
```   

```
# Target: either UserGroupIdentity or UserIdentity
# Default to UserGroupIdentity = "Domain Admins"
Find-DomainUserLocation
Find-DomainUserLocation -Server <DC> -Credential <PSCredential>

Find-DomainUserLocation -UserGroupIdentity <GROUPNAME>
Find-DomainUserLocation -UserIdentity <USERNAME>

# Find all active sessions on the specified machine
Find-DomainUserLocation -ShowAll -ComputerName <COMPUTERNAME | COMPUTERNAME_1,...,COMPUTERNAME_N>

# Check if the current user context has administrator access to the machine on which the target members have a session on
Find-DomainUserLocation -CheckAccess
```

`SharpHound`'s `Session` or `All` collection methods may be used as well.

###### Session collection with Administrator rights on target machine

If an account with Administrator access to a number of machines could be
compromised, others options may be used to enumerate sessions with a better
precision. Notably, the techniques presented below may prove useful if
`Find-DomainUserLocation` or `SharpHound`'s `Session` or `All`
collection methods did not manage to detect `Domain Admins` sessions. In order
to enumerate which machines the compromised accounts have Administrator access
to, the local Administrators group members can be retrieved (refer to `Local group
enumeration` above) or the `PowerView`'s cmdlet `Test-AdminAccess` can be used.  

The `LoggedOn` collection method of `SharpHound` for instance relies on
`Win32API`'s `NetWkstaUserEnum` function as well as an access to the `Users`
hive of the `Remote Registry`.

The `PowerView`'s cmdlet `Find-DomainProcess` uses `Get-WMIProcess` to
search for processes running under any target user contexts on the specified
machine or all machines on the current (or specified) domain.

```
# Target: either UserGroupIdentity or UserIdentity
# Default to UserGroupIdentity = "Domain Admins"
Find-DomainProcess
Find-DomainProcess -Server <DC> -Credential <PSCredential>

Find-DomainProcess -UserGroupIdentity <GROUPNAME>
Find-DomainProcess -UserIdentity <USERNAME>

# If the list of machines a given user has Administrator access to is saved in a file, the following can be used to retrieve the active users on the machines
[string[]]$arrayFromFile = Get-Content -Path <FILE>
$commaSeparatedList = $arrayFromFile -join ","
Find-DomainProcess -Server <DC> -Credential <PSCredential> -ComputerName "$commaSeparatedList"
```


### Lateral movements

Multiples mechanisms and tools can be used for lateral movements in a Windows
environment. The `Windows - Lateral movements` introduces the principals
techniques.

### Credentials dumping

Credential dumping is the process of obtaining account login and password
information, normally in the form of a hash or a clear text password, from
the operating system. The Windows operating system stores user accounts
information in the `Security Account Manager (SAM)` hive or the
`Local Security Authority Subsystem (LSASS)` process, for local or domain
accounts respectively.

For techniques and tools to efficiently dump credentials on a Windows host,
refer to the `[Windows] Post Exploit` note.
