# Active Directory - GPO users rights

### Overview

GPO can be used to assign `users rights` on the computer objects they are
applied to.

User rights fall into two general categories:
  - `logon rights` which gives the rights to logon to the specified user and
  define the logon type.
  - `privileges` that define a number of specific privileges on the computer
  object.

The `user rights` that can be used to gain access and/or compromise the
computer objects they are applied to are detailed below. Reviewing these user
rights can lead to more vectors of credentials re-use, notably if user rights
are defined for one of the following group:
  - `Everyone`, SID: `S-1-1-0`
  - `Anonymous`, SID: `S-1-5-7`
  - `Authenticated Users`, SID: `S-1-5-11`
  - `Users`, SID: `S-1-5-32-545`
  - `Domain Users`, SID: `S-1-5-<DOMAIN>-513`
  - `Domain Computers`, SID: `S-1-5-<DOMAIN>-515`

### Find user rights assignments in GPO

The `Grouper2` C# application and `PingCastle`'s `healthcheck` be used to
enumerate user rights definition in the most sensible GPO.

```
Grouper2.exe -g -f <OUTPUT_HTML>
Grouper2.exe -u "<USERNAME>" -p "<PASSWORD>" -s "\\<DC_HOSTNAME | DC_IP>\SYSVOL" -g -f <OUTPUT_HTML>
```

A more comprehensive search in all accessible GPO from the given privileges can
be conducted directly in PowerShell:

```
# Conducting the search either from the current user context or using the specified credential
net use Z: \\<DC_HOSTNAME | DC_IP>\SYSVOL
net use Z: \\<DC_HOSTNAME | DC_IP>\SYSVOL <PASSWORD> /user:<DOMAIN>\<USERNAME>
Get-ChildItem -Path Z:\ -Recurse -Force | Select-String SeInteractiveLogonRight,SeRemoteInteractiveLogonRight,SeImpersonatePrivilege,SeAssignPrimaryPrivilege,SeTcbPrivilege,SeBackupPrivilege,SeRestorePrivilege,SeCreateTokenPrivilege,SeLoadDriverPrivilege,SeTakeOwnershipPrivilege
net use Z: /delete
```

`PowerView` can be used to find where exploitable GPO are linked and
**possibly** applied. Note: GPO can be linked to an OU but not necessarily
applied, as an OU can `blocks inheritance` on an not `enforced` GPO or a
conflicting GPO with a higher precedence order may supplant the exploitable
GPO.  

```
Get-DomainOU -GPLink "<GPO_GUID>" | ForEach-Object {
    Get-DomainComputer -SearchBase "LDAP://$($_.distinguishedname)" | Ft Name
}
```

### User rights exploitation

###### Logon rights

The following logon rights can be defined to allow an user to logon onto the
computer:

| Right | Description | Exploitation technique |
|-------|-------------|------------------------|
| `SeInteractiveLogonRight` | Allows a user to connect locally on the computer | Require a physical access to the computer. |
|  `SeRemoteInteractiveLogonRight` | Allow logon through Terminal Services | Interactive logon using a RDP client. |

Note that the `SeNetworkLogonRight` allows a user to access the exposed shares
on the computer (under restrictions of the shares and NTFS permissions) but is
not sufficient by itself to remotely execute commands.

The `SeServiceLogonRight` is not directly exploitable neither as only users
with administrative privileges can install and configure services.

The `SeBatchLogonRight` alone can not be used to remotely create and run
scheduled tasks.

###### Privileges

The following privilege tokens can be used to locally elevate privileges to
`NT AUTHORITY\SYSTEM`:
- `SeImpersonatePrivilege`
- `SeAssignPrimaryPrivilege`
- `SeTcbPrivilege`
- `SeBackupPrivilege`
- `SeRestorePrivilege`
- `SeCreateTokenPrivilege`
- `SeLoadDriverPrivilege`
- `SeTakeOwnershipPrivilege`

The `SeDebugPrivilege` privilege can be used as well to directly dump the
`LSASS` process.

Note that the exploitation of those privilege tokens
Refer to the `[Windows] Local privilege escalation` for more information on
how to exploit those privilege tokens.
