# DFIR - Windows - Shellbags

### Overview

Location (starting from `Windows 7`):

  - Files:

    `%SystemDrive%:\Users\<USERNAME>\NTUSER.dat`

    `%SystemDrive%:\Users\<USERNAME>\AppData\Local\Microsoft\Windows\UsrClass.dat`

  - Registry keys:

    - `UsrClass.dat`:

      `HKCU\Software\Classes\Local Settings\Software\Microsoft\Windows\Shell\BagMRU`
      `HKCU\Software\Classes\Local Settings\Software\Microsoft\Windows\Shell\Bags`

      => Information related to `Windows Explorer` activity.

    - `NTUSER.DAT`:

      `HKCU\Software\Microsoft\Windows\Shell\BagMRU`
      `HKCU\Software\Microsoft\Windows\Shell\Bags`

      => Information related to Desktop and Network Locations activity.

      `HKCU\Software\Microsoft\Windows\ShellNoRoam\Bag`
      `HKCU\Software\Microsoft\Windows\ShellNoRoam\BagMRU`

      => Unclear usage and limited forensic research.

Yield information related to **files and folders access**.

The `Shellbags` are `Windows Registry keys` designed as an user experience
enhancing feature to keep track of Windows explorer graphical display settings
on a folder-by-folder basis. For instance, a `Shellbag` entry is used to store
the `View` mode of a folder (details, list, small / medium / large icons) as
well as the column displayed (entry names, dates, sizes, etc.) and their order.

`Shellbags` contain folders and network shares to which a given user has
navigated (using the `Windows Explorer`), but not files or subdirectories if
they were not accessed. An exception is for `ZIP` files opened directly as
folders through the `Windows Explorer`, that are stored as if they were folders
(with their content thus partially referenced depending on the related
activity). `Shellbags` entries are also generated by access to the
`Control Panel` settings, on an interface-by-interface basis. The `Shellbags`
entries related to the `Control Panel` can notably be useful to detect possible
`Windows Firewall`
(`Control Panel\All Control Panel Items\Windows Defender Firewall\Customize Settings`)
or `Credential Manager` (`Control Panel\User Accounts\Credential Manager`)
operations.

Various kinds of user activity may generate or update `Shellbag` entries (with
different level of data depending on the activity):
  - **first access** or renaming of folders, removable devices, or network
    shares through the `Windows Explorer` **systematically generate a
    `Shellbag` entry**
  - graphical opening of compressed archives or `ISOs`
  - access to the `Control Panel` interface
  - modification of the folder view preferences
  - etc.

`Shellbag` entries are stored in registry as a tree-like data structure, with
the root target having the topmost `BagMRU` key. Each sub-target
(sub directory for example) of the parent target are then represented with
both:
  - A registry subkey, named with a numerical value (starting from `0`).
  - A registry value (in the parent target's registry key), named with the same
    numerical value and associated with binary data that notably contains the
    target's name.

Each `Shellbag` `BagMRU` registry key also contains a `MRUListEx` value, that
maintains the entries visited order, i.e the order in which the sub targets of
a target were accessed (the last sub target accessed having a `MRU position`
of 0).

For example, `My Computer` will be associated with the topmost `BagMRU` key,
`C:` to `BagMRU\0` if it was access first, `C:\Users` to ` BagMRU\0\2` if it
was accessed third, and so on and so forth. A hierarchical view of the
`Shellbag` entries can thus be established.

### Information of interest

As the `Shellbags` entries are stored in user's specific registry hives,
**targets** (folders, `Control Panel` interfaces, etc.) **access can be tied
to a given user** through its `Shellbags`. `Shellbags` entries are populated
only upon interaction (i.e are not prepopulated), the mere presence of a
`Shellbag` entry for a target is thus evidence that the user interacted with
the given target. `Shellbags` entries are not automatically deleted upon
deletion of the related folders and can thus be a **source of historical
information**.

The `Shellbags` entry for a given target yield the following information of
forensic interest:
  - the **target name and absolute path**.

  - the **target `Modified, Access, and Created (MAC)` timestamps** (`UTC`),
    retrieved from the `$MFT` at the `Shellbag` entry creation (and not further
    updated).

  - each entry in `ShellBags` `BagMRU` maintain a `MRUListEx` list, which
    records **the order in which the sub targets of a target were accessed**
    (the last sub target accessed having a `MRU position` of 0).

The **first and last interacted timestamps** can be **indirectly deducted
for some targets**:
  - The `First Interacted` timestamp can be inferred for some targets thanks to
    the tree like data structure of `ShellBags` entry. Indeed, for entries that
    do not have subkeys (i.e directory for which no subdirectory were accessed)
    the `First Interacted` timestamp is equal to the key's `LastWriteTime`
    timestamp. This is due to the fact that the key is created when a target is
    first accessed, and further activity for that target (such as display
    settings modifications) will only update the key's values. In such
    circumstances, the `LastWriteTime` timestamp reflect the timestamp of the
    key initial creation (as it is not updated upon updates to a key's values).
    When a subkey is created for the target (i.e when a subdirectory is
    accessed for that particular directory), the timestamp becomes unreliable
    as it reflect the creation of the subkey.

  - The `Last Interacted` timestamp can be deducted for **the sub target that
    was last interacted with**. Indeed, as each `Shellbag` entry corresponds to
    a registry key, the key's `LastWriteTime` timestamp indicates when the
    `Shellbag` entry was last updated. The child-bag / sub-target that was last
    interacted with being known (`MRU position` of 0), this timestamp
    correspond to the last interaction timestamp for the sub target that was
    last interacted with.

Note however that major updates of the Windows operating system may result in
modification of `ShellBags` entries, resulting in updated last written
timestamp.

### Parsing

Eric Zimmerman's `ShellBagsExplorer.exe` and `SBECmd.exe` tools (`KAPE`'s
`SBECmd` module) can be used to parse `ShellBags` entries.

`ShellBagsExplorer.exe` displays the `ShellBags` entries in a graphical user
interface that allow browsing of the referenced targets, in a similar manner to
`Windows Explorer`.

```
# Recursively enumerates the users' registry hives in the specified directory and parses their ShellBags entries.
SBECmd.exe --csv <CSV_DIRECTORY_OUTPUT> -d <C:\Users\<USERNAME> | C:\Users\ | DIRECTORY>

# Parses the ShellBags entries in the live registry.
SBECmd.exe --csv <CSV_DIRECTORY_OUTPUT> -l
```

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### References

https://www.sans.org/reading-room/whitepapers/forensics/windows-shellbag-forensics-in-depth-34545

https://www.sans.org/blog/computer-forensic-artifacts-windows-7-shellbags/

https://lifars.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/04/LIFARS-WhitePaper-Windows-ShellBags-Forensics-Investigative-Value-of-Windows-ShellBags.pdf
